My Git notes:

git init - initialises traking git changes (new project)

git status - checking the status

git add filename - adding file to the staging area

git diff filename - seeing changes between working directory and staging area

git commit -m "message" - commiting git changes to files

git log - to see the history of commits

git checkout HEAD filename - will bring back the changes from the last commit to the file specified (will actually align your working directory with last commit)

git reset HEAD filename - unstaging a file to the latest commit. Let's say you add a file to staging area and you realise it's wrong. You want to bring it back to the state of the latest commit.

git reset SHA - resetting the HEAD commit to the one with the specified SHA (first 6 characters of the commit2

git branch - cehcking which branch am I currently in

git branch branch_name - create new branch (where branch_name is the name of the branch that we want to be created)

git checkout branch_name - switching to different branch name (where branch_name is the name of the branch we're switching to)

git merge branch_name - merging (synching) a branch (usually master) with other branch. Notice that you are synching the branch you are currently in with the branch specified in the command. So if you want to merge master with the other branch you need to first switch to master and then run that command.

git branch -d branch_name - deletes branch completely from git

git clone remote_location clone_name - clone remote repository locally where remote_location is for example github repo URL and clone_name is the name you give to the directory in which Git will clone the repository.

git remote -v - Git lists the name of the remote, origin, as well as its location

git fetch - checks if there were changes in the remote repo done. This command will not merge changes from the remote into your local repository. It brings those changes onto what's called a remote branch.

git merge origin/master - merges the "fetched" changes (as described above) to the repository of choice 

git remote add origin "remote repository URL" - if you've locally created a branch and you want to add it to the remote repository - that's how you'd do that

